Welcome back.
We just learned about the module pattern but you're probably wondering can we design a way to improve
upon it.
Because of the problems mentioned in the previous video.
Well luckily for us after the module pattern came to really great solutions instead of using an iffy
he and the module pattern something called common J.S. and a M.D. came out or asynchronous module definition
and they solved the problem of designing a module in a way that we won't have the interference of global
scope where we can overwrite certain variables.
Let's have a look at how they work.
Common J.S. looked something like this we can import different modules or different files using require.
We didn't have to add the DOT J S in here and we can even export specific functions like if we wanted
to export the fight function we can just do this or if we wanted to just create our own fight function
in this module we can then export it using this syntax module that exports and export an object.
Nice and simple right.
None of this immediately invoked function that we had to wrap each file in everything just looks clear
and this original Common J.S. standard might seem familiar to you because node is still using it as
a matter of fact common J.S. was created mainly for the server with no J.S. in mind to use for servers
and desktop applications and it's actually one of the main reasons that no GSM became so popular this
common J.S. import export module system that came before we even had it in the browser made code very
easy to share for no J.S. programmers.
You might have heard of NPM node package managers node package managers or manager is just a way for
people to share their modules and no GSM is popularity.
Well one of the main reasons that it's grown to the way it has since 2009 is because of NPM because
people using common J.S. were able to share their code to other programmers so that in no G.S. sharing
code and using third party code became really really easy.
Now with common J.S. modules are meant to be loaded synchronicity that means remember JavaScript has
one call stack so if a module takes a really long time to load we're just waiting there until that gets
loaded and then the next one gets loaded and then we get to run our script.
And that's not ideal for browsers where we have users clicking on bonds entering data in two forms.
A lot of interaction synchronous code on the browser can get really dangerous and that is why common
J.S. was mainly used on the server but you see people saw this and said I like this compact syntax it's
so easy to understand.
Plus I want to use all these packages that these people are writing in NPM.
So how can we use some of these useful packages on the browser.
Even though this imports syntax is synchronous and can slow down our web pages well we had two things
that came out for a common guess one was brough certified and as you can see browser Frye lets you require
modules in the browser by bundling up all of your dependencies.
What does that mean.
It means that by using browser wi fi I can in my command line run something like browser wi fi
and do script dodgy yes to bundle 4G Yes and what it will do is it will read my script RJ Yes and understand
this require syntax.
Understand the module that exports syntax and output it all into a bundle.
Yes.
Now this bundle dot J.S. would be a bundle of all the scripts in my project.
So if we go to our index start HCM Alpha I can take all these scripts you regardless of the order.
And as long as I use the require and module that exports browser if II is going to understand o j Cary
is needed by this module and global secret is needed by this module and it will create all those dependencies
and add it all to one single file called bundle dot.
Yes.
So this way we're able to use common yes even though with synchronous because when we actually deploy
this to the browser it's one giant JavaScript file with everything already in it.
And this is what is called a module bundler and things like wetback can also do this.
So inmate common GSA extremely popular because things like Westpac and browser Phi simply traverse the
dependency tree of our code and bundle them up in a single file but we have finally have the benefit
of well no global namespace pollution and order doesn't matter anymore.
All right so common GSK is pretty great and you'll see this syntax in a lot of no GSK projects still.
What about the other one.
MMd well FMD looks something like this.
All right right away if you're like me you're thinking this does not look as clean as common I guess
I already don't like it.
And also you might say I've never seen this in my life.
What are you talking about.
Andy was designed specifically for the browsers that means it loads scripts or modules asynchronously
and that's crucial for browsers.
Right where the code can really wait until a module has finished loading and yes we solve that problem
with common G.S. and browser wi fi or wetback but because javascript didn't have native modules people
came up with different solutions.
So people that didn't like common J.S. or wanted to implement their own used a M.D. That's the problem
when you don't have a standard solution for a language.
Now as you can see it's still doing the same thing if I wanted to import something.
Well I define it here and I have a function that well I can define whatever function I want and export
it.
But I can also import from other modules or do something like dot fight and grab the flight function.
Now you may not have heard of M.D. but you may have heard of the library that helped us use an M.D.
on the browsers it was called require dot J Yes.
And although it's not used that much anymore it was the main way that people used AMG modules.
Now you're thinking to yourself required JSA is a M.D. but it's not common GSK that uses the word require.
Yes that is true extremely confusing.
I know which is again another way to show you that this was extremely confusing and thank God that we
have native modules which we're going to talk about soon.
All right.
So to review we have common G.S. and M.D. that finally solves the two problems that we had which was
dependency resolution and the pollution of the global scope.
We only need to take care of the dependencies when we define our file and we're explicit with what each
module needs.
But we're also avoiding the pollution of this global namespace.
We learned that a M.D. helps us load modules asynchronously as needed and we also learned that common
G as well common J.S. also allows us to import and be explicit with our dependencies.
But at the same time because it's synchronous we can use something like a module bundler like browser
fi to actually bundle all of our code into one bundled J.S. file and still use it on the browser but
as I mentioned because of these different standards if you wanted to let's say have a package in NPM
so you can share with the community.
Now you have two ways that you need to share that package using FMD or common yes or right for both
so that both communities can use it.
And there was another thing that came out called you MP for universal module definition that tried to
solve this problem but at the end of the day UMD was just a simple if l statement to identify the module
system or the module style that the current environment supports.
So this was great and all but it wasn't really solving our core problem we needed a way for JavaScript
to unite as a community and say hey this is how we import and export modules because if we want people
to take us seriously we need our own native module system.
So here we are in this current day and age we now have native module support in JavaScript and in the
next video.
All this complication goes out the window with the new E6 modules.
Let's go have a look.